references/outline_schedule.md, before:

### Thursday February 25:
- create ideas- app idea Flashcards ✅
- create ERD  ✅ - this is on draw.io
- create wireframes  ✅
- create user stories  ✅
- create readme.md  ✅
- create this schedule  ✅
- set up git repository  ✅
- add issues ✅
- research issues and do them correctly  ✅
- draw out the paths really well and clearly - do this on draw io? or somewhere else? 🔀tomorrow
- research sql and start sketching out the best way to create the schema.sql and maybe write the seed.sql - just to get a feel for what I am creating/how to access it/what will it 'look' like. 🔀tomorrow
- look at what pg promise is 🔀tomorrow
- look into css frameworks 🔀tomorrow
- create gitignore file and test it out ✅
  https://gist.github.com/octocat/9257657


  in atom type iif+<tab> this will set use strict in an instantly invoked function - as suggested by atom errors/warnings

- npm modules (app = express)

    - bcrypt : npm install - but does not appear explicity in  js files-from classwork, but we did it... must investigate further
    https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt

    var bcrypt = require('bcrypt');
bcrypt.genSalt(10, function(err, salt) {
    bcrypt.hash('B4c0/\/', salt, function(err, hash) {
        // Store hash in your password DB.
    });
});


  - body-parser : to parse the body of a post request
      var bodyParser        = require('body-parser');
      app.use(bodyParser.urlencoded( { extended:false } ));
      app.use(bodyParser.json());



  - dotenv : to set the environment specific to my computer - including things like port and my db password * use git ignore
      var dotenv            = require ('dotenv');
      dotenv.load();

  - ejs : allows for mixing js and html to dynamically render portions of web pages (note var ejs = ... not needed)
      app.set ('view engine', 'ejs');

  - express : web application framework
      var express           = require('express');
      var app                = express();

  - method-override : allows for other verbs beyond get and post (like put and delete) via http
      var methodOverride    = require ('method-override');
      app.use(methodOverride('_method'));

  - morgan: logs information about server in node console/terminal- can use other besides 'short'-check doucmentation
      var morgan            = require('morgan');
      app.use(morgan('short'));

  - path - handles file paths in node
    https://nodejs.org/api/path.html
      var path              = require ('path');

  - pg - postgres module - only needed in pg.js? or server.js?
    var pg                = require('pg');

  - pg session - allows user sessions, needs a table called session in connected database:      https://www.npmjs.com/package/connect-pg-simple
      var pgSession         = require('connect-pg-simple');

  - create session middleware with options
      https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session
      var session           = require('express-session');

  - pry -allows for code -pause/debugging. NOTE set as global variable by not including var (if 'use strict' interferes, set this variable above 'use strict')
    pry                   = require ('pryjs');

  ##### module further research needed:
   pg (where to put it)
   pg sessions (where and how to use it)
   expresss-session (where and how to use it)
   remember to create the session table in connected database for pg session (see above)
   bcrypt - seem to be missing something from class example

  NOTE: add a checkmark for each module that has been successfully implemented/tested

git repository set up via step by step instructions provided on github after pressing new repository button


git add .
git commit -m 'meaningful message'
git push origin master
http://readwrite.com/2013/10/02/github-for-beginners-part-2


NOTE: db name = flashcards


### Friday February 26:

- make directory  ✅ (completed Thursday)
- put it on git  ✅(completed Thursday)
- update erd and save it to png - upload it to git?
- add Colin, Peter & Jason as collaborators  ✅(completed Thursday)
- set up server ✅(completed Thursday)
- set up database and tables  be sure to add time stamps and dates stuff ??skip this? need to take care of more pressing issues
- create schema.sql ✅
- create seed.sql ✅
- create some dummy data in the database to render on the page ✅

- connect the database to the server✅
- enter some dummy data✅
- create routes: see userstories expanded for reference of what to create now
- expanded user stories to make for actionable code type things✅
- oof - forgot to create a new branch and work on it! made notes to this to check on that daily✅
- tried to work on users and authentication, but it didn't work out, switched gears, talked to Jason, made new strategy for the weekend✅

- get something to display on the routes
- add a little css
- consider ejs today or tomorrow?
- create user and user authentication
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule



### Saturday February 27:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch!
- the create route!
- the edit route!
- super awesome goal for the day: delete and update route
- create the nav bar
- do some css
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule

### Sunday February 28:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch!
- keep working on everything above and hopefully finish the above
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule


### Monday February 29:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch!
hopefully be done and polishing.
See if I can create the study view/portion of the app
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule

Code Freeze

### Tuesday March 1:
PRESENTATION DAY

Commit message:

started to move routes into cards.js so that login functionality could be applied, cannot move all routes, having an issue, probably something to do wiht another issue everything still works the same as it did before these changes

references/outline_schedule.md, after:

### Thursday February 25:
- create ideas- app idea Flashcards ✅
- create ERD  ✅ - this is on draw.io
- create wireframes  ✅
- create user stories  ✅
- create readme.md  ✅
- create this schedule  ✅
- set up git repository  ✅
- add issues ✅
- research issues and do them correctly  ✅
- draw out the paths really well and clearly - do this on draw io? or somewhere else? 🔀tomorrow
- research sql and start sketching out the best way to create the schema.sql and maybe write the seed.sql - just to get a feel for what I am creating/how to access it/what will it 'look' like. 🔀tomorrow
- look at what pg promise is 🔀tomorrow
- look into css frameworks 🔀tomorrow
- create gitignore file and test it out ✅
  https://gist.github.com/octocat/9257657


  in atom type iif+<tab> this will set use strict in an instantly invoked function - as suggested by atom errors/warnings

- npm modules (app = express)

    - bcrypt : npm install - but does not appear explicity in  js files-from classwork, but we did it... must investigate further
    https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt

    var bcrypt = require('bcrypt');
bcrypt.genSalt(10, function(err, salt) {
    bcrypt.hash('B4c0/\/', salt, function(err, hash) {
        // Store hash in your password DB.
    });
});


  - body-parser : to parse the body of a post request
      var bodyParser        = require('body-parser');
      app.use(bodyParser.urlencoded( { extended:false } ));
      app.use(bodyParser.json());



  - dotenv : to set the environment specific to my computer - including things like port and my db password * use git ignore
      var dotenv            = require ('dotenv');
      dotenv.load();

  - ejs : allows for mixing js and html to dynamically render portions of web pages (note var ejs = ... not needed)
      app.set ('view engine', 'ejs');

  - express : web application framework
      var express           = require('express');
      var app                = express();

  - method-override : allows for other verbs beyond get and post (like put and delete) via http
      var methodOverride    = require ('method-override');
      app.use(methodOverride('_method'));

  - morgan: logs information about server in node console/terminal- can use other besides 'short'-check doucmentation
      var morgan            = require('morgan');
      app.use(morgan('short'));

  - path - handles file paths in node
    https://nodejs.org/api/path.html
      var path              = require ('path');

  - pg - postgres module - only needed in pg.js? or server.js?
    var pg                = require('pg');

  - pg session - allows user sessions, needs a table called session in connected database:      https://www.npmjs.com/package/connect-pg-simple
      var pgSession         = require('connect-pg-simple');

  - create session middleware with options
      https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session
      var session           = require('express-session');

  - pry -allows for code -pause/debugging. NOTE set as global variable by not including var (if 'use strict' interferes, set this variable above 'use strict')
    pry                   = require ('pryjs');

  ##### module further research needed:
   pg (where to put it)
   pg sessions (where and how to use it)
   expresss-session (where and how to use it)
   remember to create the session table in connected database for pg session (see above)
   bcrypt - seem to be missing something from class example

  NOTE: add a checkmark for each module that has been successfully implemented/tested

git repository set up via step by step instructions provided on github after pressing new repository button


git add .
git commit -m 'meaningful message'
git push origin master
http://readwrite.com/2013/10/02/github-for-beginners-part-2


NOTE: db name = flashcards


### Friday February 26:

- make directory  ✅ (completed Thursday)
- put it on git  ✅(completed Thursday)
- update erd and save it to png - upload it to git?
- add Colin, Peter & Jason as collaborators  ✅(completed Thursday)
- set up server ✅(completed Thursday)
- set up database and tables  be sure to add time stamps and dates stuff ??skip this? need to take care of more pressing issues
- create schema.sql ✅
- create seed.sql ✅
- create some dummy data in the database to render on the page ✅

- connect the database to the server✅
- enter some dummy data✅
- create routes: see userstories expanded for reference of what to create now
- expanded user stories to make for actionable code type things✅
- oof - forgot to create a new branch and work on it! made notes to this to check on that daily✅
- tried to work on users and authentication, but it didn't work out, switched gears, talked to Jason, made new strategy for the weekend✅

- get something to display on the routes
- add a little css
- consider ejs today or tomorrow?
- create user and user authentication
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule



### Saturday February 27:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch!✅
- the create route! ✅
- the edit route!
- super awesome goal for the day: delete and update route
- create the nav bar ✅
- do some css ✅
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule ✅

### Sunday February 28:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch! ✅
- keep working on everything above and hopefully finish the above ✅
- update readme
- update issues ✅
- update this schedule


### Monday February 29:
- check to make sure you are working on a branch!
hopefully be done and polishing.- ha ha ha
- try to create sessions and have user be user logged in on every page
- have user see only user cards
See if I can create the study view/portion of the app
- update readme
- update issues
- update this schedule

Code Freeze

### Tuesday March 1:
PRESENTATION DAY
